docs/appendices/comparison-to-related-tools.md, before:

Comparison to related tools
===========================

Policy Revocation Tools
-----------------------

### Repokid

RepoKid is a popular tool that was developed by Netflix, and is one of
the more mature and battle-tested AWS IAM open source projects. It
leverages AWS Access Advisor, which informs you how many AWS services
your IAM Principal has access to, and how many of those services it has
used in the last X amount of days or months. If you haven't used a
service within the last 30 days, it "repos" your policy, and strips it
of the privileges it doesn't use. It has some advanced features to
allow for whitelisting roles and overall is a great tool.

One shortcoming is that AWS IAM Access Advisor only provides details at
the service level (ex: S3-wide, or EC2-wide) and not down to the IAM
Action level, so the revised policy is not very granular. However,
RepoKid plays a unique role in the IAM ecosystem right now in that there
are not any open source tools that provide similar functionality. **For
that reason, it is best to view RepoKid and Policy Sentry as
complimentary.**

Travis McPeak summarized the potential dynamic between Policy Sentry and
RepoKid very well on [Clint Gliber's
blog](https://programanalys.is/blog/tldr-sec-010-cloudflare-on-security-iam-least-priv-xss-in-firefox-ui/#policy_sentry---iam-least-privilege-policy-generator):

AWS Tools
---------

### AWS Console - Visual Policy Editor

-   [AWS IAM Visual Policy Editor in the AWS
    Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_create.html#access_policies_create-start)

This policy generator is great in general and you should use it if
you're getting used to writing IAM policies.

It's very similar to `policy_sentry` - you are able to bulk select
according to access levels.

However, there are a number of downsides:

-   **Missing access level type**: It does not specifically flag
    "Permissions management" access level
-   **No override capabilities for inaccurate Access Levels**: Note how
    the `ssm:PutParameter` action is listed as "Tagging". This is
    inaccurate; it should be "Write". policy_sentry allows you to
    override inaccurate access levels, whereas the Visual Policy Editor
    has had inaccurate Access levels for the last several years without
    any fixes.

-   **Not automated**: Policy Sentry is, by design, meant for automated
    policy generation, whereas the Visual Policy Editor is meant to be
    manual.
-   **Console Access**: It also requires access to the AWS Console.
-   **Extensibility**: It's open source and Pull Requests are welcome!
    With `policy_sentry`, we get more control.

On the positive side, it does walk you through creating policies with
IAM Condition keys. However, we believe that policy_sentry's approach,
where we **always** have policies restricted to the least amount of
resources - provides a greater benefit to the end user. Furthermore, we
plan on supporting condition keys at some point in the future.

### AWS Policy Generator (static website)

-   [AWS Policy Generator - static
    website](https://awspolicygen.s3.amazonaws.com/policygen.html)

AWS Policy Generator is a great tool; it supports IAM policies, as well
as multiple types of resource-based policies (SQS Queue policy, S3
bucket policy, SNS Topic Policy, and VPC Endpoint Policy).

**Loose ARN formatting**: The regex expressions that it uses per-service
does not require that actual valid resource ARNs are met - just that
they meet the Regex requirement, which is uniform per-service. It just
isn't as accurate or up to date as the actual IAM policy generation
through the AWS Console

**Missing actions**: To determine the list of actions, it relies on a
file titled
[policies.js](https://awspolicygen.s3.amazonaws.com/js/policies.js),
which contains a list of IAM Actions. However, this file is not as well
maintained as the [Actions, Resources, and Condition Keys
tables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_actions-resources-contextkeys.html).
For example, it does not have these actions:

```text
a4b:describe*
appstream:get*
cloudformation:preview*
codestar:verify*
ds:check*
health:get*
health:list*
kinesisanalytics:get*
lightsail:list*
mobilehub:validate*
resource-groups:describe*
```

Log-based Policy Generators
---------------------------

### CloudTracker

-   [CloudTracker](https://github.com/duo-labs/cloudtracker)

Policy Sentry is somewhat similar to CloudTracker. CloudTracker queries
CloudTrail logs using Amazon Athena and attempts to "guess" the matching
between CloudTrail actions and IAM actions, then generates a policy.
Given that there is not a 1-to-1 mapping between the names of Actions
listed in CloudTrail log entries and the names AWS IAM Actions, the
results are not always accurate. It is a good place to start, but the
generated policies all contain Resources: "*", so it is up to the
user to restrict those IAM actions to only the necessary resources.

### Trailscraper

-   [Trailscraper](https://github.com/flosell/trailscraper/)

Trailscraper does automated policy generation from CloudTrail logs, but
there are some major limitations:

1.  The generated policies have Resources set to `*`, not
    to a specific resource ARN
2.  It downloads all of the CloudTrail logs. This takes a while.
    -   Cloudtracker (<https://github.com/duo-labs/cloudtracker>) uses
        Amazon Athena, which is more efficient. In the future, I'd like
        to see a combined approach between all three of these tools to
        generate IAM policies based on Cloudtrail logs. 3. It is
        accurate to the point where there is a 1-to-1 mapping with the
        IAM actions vs CloudTrail logs. As I mentioned in other
        comments, since not every IAM Action is logged in CloudTrail and
        not every CloudTrail action matches IAM Actions, the results are
        not always accurate.

Monitoring AWS API Calls
------------------------

### actionhero

-   [actionhero](https://github.com/princespaghetti/actionhero)

Action Hero is a sidecar style utility to monitor the AWS API calls that your
application makes and log out the corresponding IAM actions.

Action Hero is limited in that it uses the AWS SDK's [Client Side
Monitoring](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/aws/csm/) (CSM), and as
such, cannot capture parameters or Resource ARNs. It also does not generate
full policies; it only logs out IAM actions. Due to these limitations,
Action Hero is not a complete tool, but can be a great addition to other tools
as it can accurately capture all required actions.

Currently, Action Hero is best suited for developing policies side-by-side with
your application. This approach is different from the Log-based tools that
generate policies for existing deployed applications. That being said, as a
sidecar, Action Hero _could_ be deployed alongside applications to monitor AWS
API calls in production.

Other Infrastructure as Code Tools
----------------------------------

### aws-iam-generator

-   [aws-iam-generator](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-iam-generator)

aws-iam-generator still requires you to write the actual policy
templates from scratch, and then they allow you to re-use those policy
templates.

Consider the JSON under [this
area](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-iam-generator#managed-policies-derived-from-a-jinja2-template)
of their README.

It's essentially a method for managing their policies as code - but it
doesn't make those policies restricted to certain resources, unless you
configure it that way. Using `policy_sentry --write-policy`, you have to
supply a file with resource ARNs, and it will write the policy for you,
rather than supplying a policy file, and hoping the ARNs fit that use
case.

### Terraform

The rationale described above also generally applies to Terraform, in
that it still requires you to write the actual policy templates from
scratch, and then you can re-use those policy templates. However, you
still need to make those policies secure by default.

Commit message:

docs: add comparison to automagic iamlive tool
- iamlive is another tool that can automagically sense AWS API calls
  - iamlive can make use of CSM or run as an embedded proxy
  - it does have similar limitations to other tools in that it relies
    on an unofficial mapping, as mentioned in the comparison

- Modify README to remove actionhero link and use more specific text
  instead
  - neither tool is 100% perfect, automagic, least-privilege
    unfortunately

- Move CSM link to iamlive as it is first in the docs
- Consistently capitalize "Resource", "Policies", "Actions" etc

docs/appendices/comparison-to-related-tools.md, after:

Comparison to related tools
===========================

Policy Revocation Tools
-----------------------

### Repokid

RepoKid is a popular tool that was developed by Netflix, and is one of
the more mature and battle-tested AWS IAM open source projects. It
leverages AWS Access Advisor, which informs you how many AWS services
your IAM Principal has access to, and how many of those services it has
used in the last X amount of days or months. If you haven't used a
service within the last 30 days, it "repos" your policy, and strips it
of the privileges it doesn't use. It has some advanced features to
allow for whitelisting roles and overall is a great tool.

One shortcoming is that AWS IAM Access Advisor only provides details at
the service level (ex: S3-wide, or EC2-wide) and not down to the IAM
Action level, so the revised policy is not very granular. However,
RepoKid plays a unique role in the IAM ecosystem right now in that there
are not any open source tools that provide similar functionality. **For
that reason, it is best to view RepoKid and Policy Sentry as
complimentary.**

Travis McPeak summarized the potential dynamic between Policy Sentry and
RepoKid very well on [Clint Gliber's
blog](https://programanalys.is/blog/tldr-sec-010-cloudflare-on-security-iam-least-priv-xss-in-firefox-ui/#policy_sentry---iam-least-privilege-policy-generator):

AWS Tools
---------

### AWS Console - Visual Policy Editor

-   [AWS IAM Visual Policy Editor in the AWS
    Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_create.html#access_policies_create-start)

This policy generator is great in general and you should use it if
you're getting used to writing IAM policies.

It's very similar to `policy_sentry` - you are able to bulk select
according to access levels.

However, there are a number of downsides:

-   **Missing access level type**: It does not specifically flag
    "Permissions management" access level
-   **No override capabilities for inaccurate Access Levels**: Note how
    the `ssm:PutParameter` action is listed as "Tagging". This is
    inaccurate; it should be "Write". policy_sentry allows you to
    override inaccurate access levels, whereas the Visual Policy Editor
    has had inaccurate Access levels for the last several years without
    any fixes.

-   **Not automated**: Policy Sentry is, by design, meant for automated
    policy generation, whereas the Visual Policy Editor is meant to be
    manual.
-   **Console Access**: It also requires access to the AWS Console.
-   **Extensibility**: It's open source and Pull Requests are welcome!
    With `policy_sentry`, we get more control.

On the positive side, it does walk you through creating policies with
IAM Condition keys. However, we believe that policy_sentry's approach,
where we **always** have policies restricted to the least amount of
resources - provides a greater benefit to the end user. Furthermore, we
plan on supporting condition keys at some point in the future.

### AWS Policy Generator (static website)

-   [AWS Policy Generator - static
    website](https://awspolicygen.s3.amazonaws.com/policygen.html)

AWS Policy Generator is a great tool; it supports IAM policies, as well
as multiple types of resource-based policies (SQS Queue policy, S3
bucket policy, SNS Topic Policy, and VPC Endpoint Policy).

**Loose ARN formatting**: The regex expressions that it uses per-service
does not require that actual valid resource ARNs are met - just that
they meet the Regex requirement, which is uniform per-service. It just
isn't as accurate or up to date as the actual IAM policy generation
through the AWS Console

**Missing actions**: To determine the list of actions, it relies on a
file titled
[policies.js](https://awspolicygen.s3.amazonaws.com/js/policies.js),
which contains a list of IAM Actions. However, this file is not as well
maintained as the [Actions, Resources, and Condition Keys
tables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_actions-resources-contextkeys.html).
For example, it does not have these actions:

```text
a4b:describe*
appstream:get*
cloudformation:preview*
codestar:verify*
ds:check*
health:get*
health:list*
kinesisanalytics:get*
lightsail:list*
mobilehub:validate*
resource-groups:describe*
```

Log-based Policy Generators
---------------------------

### CloudTracker

-   [CloudTracker](https://github.com/duo-labs/cloudtracker)

Policy Sentry is somewhat similar to CloudTracker. CloudTracker queries
CloudTrail logs using Amazon Athena and attempts to "guess" the matching
between CloudTrail actions and IAM actions, then generates a policy.
Given that there is not a 1-to-1 mapping between the names of Actions
listed in CloudTrail log entries and the names AWS IAM Actions, the
results are not always accurate. It is a good place to start, but the
generated policies all contain Resources: "*", so it is up to the
user to restrict those IAM actions to only the necessary resources.

### Trailscraper

-   [Trailscraper](https://github.com/flosell/trailscraper/)

Trailscraper does automated policy generation from CloudTrail logs, but
there are some major limitations:

1.  The generated policies have Resources set to `*`, not
    to a specific resource ARN
2.  It downloads all of the CloudTrail logs. This takes a while.
    -   Cloudtracker (<https://github.com/duo-labs/cloudtracker>) uses
        Amazon Athena, which is more efficient. In the future, I'd like
        to see a combined approach between all three of these tools to
        generate IAM policies based on Cloudtrail logs. 3. It is
        accurate to the point where there is a 1-to-1 mapping with the
        IAM actions vs CloudTrail logs. As I mentioned in other
        comments, since not every IAM Action is logged in CloudTrail and
        not every CloudTrail action matches IAM Actions, the results are
        not always accurate.

Monitoring AWS API Calls
------------------------

### iamlive

-   [iamlive](https://github.com/iann0036/iamlive)

`iamlive` is a tool that monitors AWS API calls and generates an IAM policy
based on those.

`iamlive` can either use the AWS SDK's [Client Side
Monitoring](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/aws/csm/) (CSM) feature
or an embedded proxy to track which AWS API calls are made. In CSM mode, it can
only capture IAM Actions, but in proxy mode, it can also capture Resource ARNs.

`iamlive` shares similar limitations to other tools in that it relies on an
[unofficial mapping](https://github.com/iann0036/iam-dataset) from SDK calls to
IAM Actions, and so can have inaccuracies.

Currently, `iamlive` is mainly intended to be used in a separate terminal window
from a currently running application. That being said, it could potentially be
used as a sidecar alongside deployed applications.

### actionhero

-   [actionhero](https://github.com/princespaghetti/actionhero)

Action Hero is a sidecar style utility to monitor the AWS API calls that your
application makes and log out the corresponding IAM Actions.

Action Hero is limited in that it makes exclusive use of CSM, and as such,
cannot capture parameters or Resource ARNs. It also does not generate full
policies; it only logs out IAM Actions. Due to these limitations, Action Hero
is not a complete tool, but can be a great addition to other tools as it can
accurately capture all required actions.

Currently, Action Hero is best suited for developing policies side-by-side with
your application. This approach is different from the Log-based tools that
generate policies for existing deployed applications. That being said, as a
sidecar, Action Hero _could_ be deployed alongside applications to monitor AWS
API calls in production.

Other Infrastructure as Code Tools
----------------------------------

### aws-iam-generator

-   [aws-iam-generator](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-iam-generator)

aws-iam-generator still requires you to write the actual policy
templates from scratch, and then they allow you to re-use those policy
templates.

Consider the JSON under [this
area](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-iam-generator#managed-policies-derived-from-a-jinja2-template)
of their README.

It's essentially a method for managing their policies as code - but it
doesn't make those policies restricted to certain resources, unless you
configure it that way. Using `policy_sentry --write-policy`, you have to
supply a file with resource ARNs, and it will write the policy for you,
rather than supplying a policy file, and hoping the ARNs fit that use
case.

### Terraform

The rationale described above also generally applies to Terraform, in
that it still requires you to write the actual policy templates from
scratch, and then you can re-use those policy templates. However, you
still need to make those policies secure by default.
