docs/user-guide/initialize.rst, before:

Initialization
##############

`initialize`: This will create a SQLite database that contains all of the services available through the `Actions, Resources, and Condition Keys documentation <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_actions-resources-contextkeys.html>`__.

The database is stored in ``$HOME/.policy_sentry/aws.sqlite3``.

The database is generated based on the HTML files stored in the ``policy_sentry/shared/data/docs/`` directory.

Options
^^^^^^^


* ``--access-level-overrides-file`` (Optional): Path to your own custom access level overrides file, used to override the Access Levels per action provided by AWS docs. The default one is `here <https://github.com/salesforce/policy_sentry/blob/master/policy_sentry/shared/data/access-level-overrides.yml>`__.

Usage
^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

   # Initialize the database, using the existing Access Level Overrides file
   policy_sentry initialize

   # Initialize the database with a custom Access Level Overrides file
   policy_sentry initialize --access-level-overrides-file my-override.yml

Commit message:

Add fetch argument to initialize commmand

docs/user-guide/initialize.rst, after:

Initialization
##############

`initialize`: This will create a SQLite database that contains all of the services available through the `Actions, Resources, and Condition Keys documentation <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_actions-resources-contextkeys.html>`__.

The database is stored in ``$HOME/.policy_sentry/aws.sqlite3``.

The database is generated based on the HTML files stored in the ``policy_sentry/shared/data/docs/`` directory.

Options
^^^^^^^


* ``--access-level-overrides-file`` (Optional): Path to your own custom access level overrides file, used to override the Access Levels per action provided by AWS docs. The default one is `here <https://github.com/salesforce/policy_sentry/blob/master/policy_sentry/shared/data/access-level-overrides.yml>`__.

Usage
^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    # Initialize the database, using the existing Access Level Overrides file
    policy_sentry initialize

    # Initialize the database, but instead of using the AWS HTML files in the Python package (which might be outdated, even if it is a week old), download the very latest AWS HTML Docs and make sure that Policy Sentry uses them
    policy_sentry initialize --fetch

    # Initialize the database with a custom Access Level Overrides file
    policy_sentry initialize --access-level-overrides-file my-override.yml
