docs/contributing/documentation.md, before:

Contributing to Documentation
=============================

If you're looking to help document Policy Sentry, your first step is to
get set up with Sphinx, our documentation tool. First you will want to
make sure you have a few things on your local system:

-   python-dev (if you're on OS X, you already have this)
-   pip
-   pipenv

Once you've got all that, the rest is simple:

```bash
# If you have a fork, you'll want to clone it instead
git clone git@github.com:salesforce/policy_sentry.git

# Set up the Pipenv
pipenv install --skip-lock
pipenv shell

# Enter the docs directory and compile
cd docs/
make html

# View the file titled docs/_build/html/index.html in your browser
```

Building Documentation
----------------------

Inside the `docs` directory, you can run `make` to build the
documentation. See `make help` for available options and the [Sphinx
Documentation](http://sphinx-doc.org/contents.html) for more
information.

Docstrings
----------

The comments under each Python Module are Docstrings. We use those to
generate our documentation. See more information [here](https://sphinx-rtd-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/build-the-docs.html#generating-documentation-from-docstrings).

Use the Google style for Docstrings, as shown [here](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/napoleon.html#google-vs-numpy)

```python
def func(arg1, arg2):
    """Summary line.

    Extended description of function.

    Args:
        arg1 (int): Description of arg1
        arg2 (str): Description of arg2

    Returns:
        bool: Description of return value

    """
    return True
```

Commit message:

Moved from Pipenv to Virtualenv

docs/contributing/documentation.md, after:

Contributing to Documentation
=============================

If you're looking to help document Policy Sentry, your first step is to
get set up with Mkdocs, our documentation tool. First you will want to
make sure you have a few things on your local system:

-   python-dev (if you're on OS X, you already have this)
-   pip

Once you've got all that, the rest is simple:

```bash
# If you have a fork, you'll want to clone it instead
git clone git@github.com:salesforce/policy_sentry.git

# Set up the virtual environment
python3 -m venv ./venv && source venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
pip3 install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Create the HTML files
invoke docs.build-docs
invoke docs.serve-docs

# The above will open the built documentation in your browser
```

Docstrings
----------

The comments under each Python Module are Docstrings. We use those to
generate our documentation. See more information [here](https://sphinx-rtd-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/build-the-docs.html#generating-documentation-from-docstrings).

Use the Google style for Docstrings, as shown [here](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/napoleon.html#google-vs-numpy)

```python
def func(arg1, arg2):
    """Summary line.

    Extended description of function.

    Args:
        arg1 (int): Description of arg1
        arg2 (str): Description of arg2

    Returns:
        bool: Description of return value

    """
    return True
```
